---
title: "The New Botify Intelligence &#038; Activation: Act Faster On SEO"
date: 2019-10-22T00:00:00
excerpt: "<p>The New Botify Intelligence &amp; Activation: Act Faster on SEO The Botify Team Are you (or your SEO team) struggling to focus on the tasks that will drive the greatest impact, while protecting critical content on your website? The latest product suites to hit the Botify platform were developed to help you drive greater opportunity,&hellip; </p>
<p><a class=\"moretag\" href=\"https://www.botify.com/blog/botify-intelligence-activation-seo\">Read the full article</a></p>"
slug: botify-intelligence-activation-seo
---

<header class="text-center">
<h1 class="font-internacional font-regular normal text-header-one leading-header-one text-typography-accent-2">The New Botify Intelligence &amp; Activation: Act Faster on SEO</h1>
<div class="flex items-center justify-center my-3"><span class="ml-1 font-internacional font-regular normal text-base leading-none text-typography-primary">The Botify Team</span></div>
<div></div>
</header>
<p>Are you (or your SEO team) struggling to focus on the tasks that will drive the greatest impact, while protecting critical content on your website? The latest product suites to hit the Botify platform were developed to help you drive greater opportunity, faster, from the organic search channel.</p>
<p>Take a look:</p>
<h2 id="enterprise-level-seo-just-became-more-manageable">Enterprise-level SEO just became more manageable</h2>
<p><strong>Botify Intelligence</strong> and <strong>Botify Activation</strong>, our two new product suites, overlay the award-winning Botify Analytics data solution giving brands a 360¬∞ approach to SEO. With Botify&#8217;s full suite, you can now easily identify, prioritize, and action technical SEO tasks that drive immediate, sustainable, and recurring traffic growth and revenue opportunities, while protecting existing content assets from the potential pitfalls of search engine algorithm or other technical website updates.</p>
<p>&#8220;We started 2019 with an exciting announcement, an investment of $20 million dollars meant specifically for product innovation,&#8221; said Botify&#8217;s CEO &amp; Co-Founder Adrien Menard. &#8220;Today that investment starts to pay dividends for the SEO industry, with the announcement of these new product suites.&#8221;</p>
<h2 id="botify-intelligence-for-a-clear-seo-roadmap">Botify Intelligence for a clear SEO roadmap</h2>
<p>Botify Intelligence provides prescriptive and prioritized technical SEO tasks based on the unique business requirements of each website. <strong>ActionBoard</strong>, the first feature under the new Botify Intelligence suite, analyzes hundreds of key metrics from Botify Analytics and removes the complexity and time constraints of determining what tasks will drive the biggest impact and why.</p>
<p>&#8220;Our users now have an SEO roadmap for their website that is geared towards driving the greatest impact,&#8221; said Menard. &#8220;ActionBoard is purpose-built to free up a significant amount of time for technical SEOs to focus on more strategic and creative thinking involved in search engine optimization, while giving them the peace of mind of knowing they&#8217;re prioritizing the right tasks.&#8221;</p>
<p>Also part of the Botify Intelligence suite is <strong>AlertPanel</strong>, an early warning system that gives SEO stakeholders peace of mind that they will quickly learn of any consequences related to search engine algorithm updates or other issues impacting traffic. AlertPanel is automatically configured to scan the most important pages of a specific website at unparalleled speed and scale and with the intelligence to know what is a true anomaly versus what is likely a result of seasonal trends. AlertPanel is configurable for basic HTML sites, as well as the more complex JavaScript sites.</p>
<p>&#8220;It&#8217;s not uncommon for brands to come to Botify after experiencing a major, unexpected drop in organic traffic due to updates to their website or search engine changes,&#8221; said Christophe Frenet, SVP of Product at Botify. &#8220;Often times, they can&#8217;t identify exactly what caused the decline and therefore have no quick way of mitigating the issues. We built AlertPanel to provide a highly scaled safety-net for exactly this scenario: if the critical pages of your website suddenly lose important organic traffic, Botifty will immediately alert you and direct you to exactly where the issue is occuring.&#8221;</p>
<h2 id="botify-activation-to-index-your-webpages-faster">Botify Activation to index your webpages faster</h2>
<p>The Botify Activation product suite is designed to streamline and simplify manual SEO tasks. Through <strong>FastIndex</strong>, the first solution within Botify Activation, SEOs are able to quickly and easily submit new, updated, and relevant pages to search engines for indexing, giving a clear indication of the most important content on their websites.</p>
<p>FastIndex addresses the challenge illustrated through Botify&#8217;s recent annual SEO report, &#8220;How do Search Engines Crawl the Web,&#8221; which uncovered the shocking truth that <a href="https://www.botify.com/blog/getting-pages-crawled-rendered-indexed">search engines see less than half</a> of the typical enterprise website.</p>
<p>&#8220;Between crawl budgets and the growing use of JavaScript, which resulted in the new &#8216;<a href="https://www.botify.com/blog/from-crawl-budget-to-render-budget">render budget</a>&#8216;, search engines are challenged to discover all of the relevant content across a brand&#8217;s digital footprint,&#8221; said Menard. &#8220;The result is that a brand&#8217;s critical, high-value pages aren&#8217;t being found, while search engines waste precious resources on other, low-value pages.&#8221;</p>
<h2 id="are-you-prioritizing-your-seo-">Are you prioritizing your SEO?</h2>
<p>Botify customers can talk to their Customer Success Managers for more information about how to get Botify Intelligence and Activation. For those who aren&#8217;t yet Botify customers but want to know more about these new product suites, request a platform demo <a href="https://lp.botify.com/book-a-demo-suite">here</a>.</p>
<div class="tags leading-big border-t border-b border-brand-quaternary-lighter mt-4"><span class="mr-1 font-roboto font-regular normal text-base leading-none">Category:</span><a class="uppercase text-typography-accent-1" href="/blog">Botify News</a>, <a class="uppercase text-typography-accent-1" href="/solutions/e-commerce">Enterprise SEO</a>, <a class="uppercase text-typography-accent-1" href="/platform">Product Features</a>, <a class="uppercase text-typography-accent-1" href="/solutions/tech-seo">Technical SEO</a>, <a class="uppercase text-typography-accent-1" href="/platform/botify-intelligence">Alerts &amp; Monitoring</a></div>
<footer class="flex justify-center my-5 mx-5">
<div class="mr-1 w-1/2 text-right">
<p><span class="font-internacional font-regular normal text-base leading-none text-typography-primary">Previous Article</span></p>
<p><a class="inline-block mt-2" href="/blog/crawl2convert-botifys-inaugural-customer-summit"><span class="font-roboto font-regular normal text-base leading-none text-typography-accent-4">Top 10 Takeaways from Crawl2Convert: Botify&#8217;s Inaugural Customer Summit </span></a></p>
</div>
<div class="ml-1 w-1/2">
<p><span class="font-internacional font-regular normal text-base leading-none text-typography-primary">Next Article</span></p>
<p><a class="inline-block mt-2" href="/blog/action-board-prioritized-seo-plan"><span class="font-roboto font-regular normal text-base leading-none text-typography-accent-4">&#8220;Where Do I Start?&#8221; Just Got Easier. Introducing ActionBoard — Your Prioritized SEO To-Do List.</span></a></p>
</div>
</footer>
<div title="The New Botify Intelligence &amp; Activation: Act Faster on SEO">
<div id="disqus_thread_old"></div>
<p><a class="dsq-brlink" href="http://disqus.com">Blog comments powered by <span class="logo-disqus">Disqus</span>.</a></p>
</div>
