---
title: "Botify Welcomes Two Seasoned Tech Executives to Their Leadership Team"
date: 2022-01-25T22:02:10
excerpt: "<p>We are thrilled to welcome Robert Rothschild as Chief Marketing Officer and Angela Newman as Senior Vice President of Legal. Robert will take a data-driven approach to pipeline growth, helping us reach our global revenue targets while expanding awareness of our international brand. Angela, previously retained as outside counsel in the US, now joins us&hellip; </p>
<p><a class=\"moretag\" href=\"https://www.botify.com/blog/botify-welcomes-two-seasoned-tech-executives-to-their-leadership-team\">Read the full article</a></p>"
slug: botify-welcomes-two-seasoned-tech-executives-to-their-leadership-team
---


<p>We are thrilled to welcome Robert Rothschild as Chief Marketing Officer and Angela Newman as Senior Vice President of Legal. Robert will take a data-driven approach to pipeline growth, helping us reach our global revenue targets while expanding awareness of our international brand. Angela, previously retained as outside counsel in the US, now joins us full time to build out and oversee a world-class legal team. Both Robert and Angela will join Botify executive leadership.</p>



<p>Robert comes to us with a wealth of experience growing startups into well-established enterprise brands. Prior to Botify, Robert worked with Helsinki-based social advertising automation platform Smartly.io, the world’s largest Facebook marketing partner with +€3 billion in total ad spend managed on their platform. As their Chief Marketing Officer, Robert helped the team more than double their ARR over the course of three years. Before that, he led a similar initiative as Global Vice President of Marketing Operations &amp; Strategy at Hybris, a market-leading cloud-based e-commerce solution acquired by SAP for $1.5 billion in 2013.</p>



<figure class="wp-block-pullquote"><blockquote><p style="font-size:20px">I’m seeing this recurring pattern over the last three companies [I’ve worked for]: really intelligent people who like to have fun, enjoy spending time with one another, and can rally around a solution that solves a real, urgent business problem. Those factors together, in my experience, lead to success, which is why I find Botify super exciting.</p><cite><div style="font-size:14px">Robert Rothschild, CMO</div></cite></blockquote></figure>



<p>“The things that got me really excited about working at Hybris were the same things that ultimately led me to Smartly. And those things that led me to Smartly are the same things that I saw in Botify when I first started talking to the people here,” says Robert. &#8220;I’m seeing this recurring pattern over the last three companies: really intelligent people who like to have fun, enjoy spending time with one another, and can rally around a solution that solves a real, urgent business problem. Those factors together, in my experience, lead to success, which is why I find Botify super exciting.&#8221;</p>



<p>Robert earned his ALM in Management at Harvard University and graduated summa cum laude from Northeastern University with a BS in Management.</p>



<p>Angela has been working with Botify on a contract basis for a year and has over 25 years of legal experience in the technology sector. Her own highly successful boutique law practice, Newman Law Group LLC, saw tremendous success by helping several European startups expand into the US market. Prior to growing her firm, she spent three years as General Counsel for Nexthink, a Swiss company, building a global Legal department, supporting rapid ARR growth, and leading various strategic initiatives, including funding round due diligence, intellectual property portfolio management, and compliance reviews. Before joining Nexthink, Angela managed international Legal teams at a number of companies, including Adobe, Neolane, and Oracle, where she served for five years.</p>



<figure class="wp-block-pullquote"><blockquote><p style="font-size:20px">Botify is leading the way in helping customers discover deeply valuable insights from existing data that directly translate into visible financial results. It is an honor to be counted among the smart, dedicated, and curious innovators I now call teammates.</p><cite><div style="font-size:14px">Angela Newman, SVP Legal</div></cite></blockquote></figure>



<p>When Angela heard Botify was looking to build an in-house Legal team, she couldn’t resist applying. “I’ve been increasingly impressed with the growth and evolution of Botify over this last year,” she says. “Botify’s solutions are best in class for the SEO industry, and their focus on helping customers map SEO efforts to ROI is so important. Botify is leading the way in helping customers discover deeply valuable insights from existing data that directly translate into visible financial results. It is an honor to be counted among the smart, dedicated, and curious innovators I now call teammates.”</p>



<p>Angela earned her JD cum laude from Suffolk University Law School and graduated from Wellesley College with a double major BA in Psychology and Sociology. She has continued her education in recent years, attending a US Intellectual Property Law program at Stanford Law School, as well as earning Certified Information Privacy Professional designations for the US and EU through the International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP).</p>
