---
title: "Botify Named One of the French Tech Next 120 for the Second Time"
date: 2022-02-09T22:16:35
excerpt: "<p>We are honored and humbled to announce that we’ve been named in 2022’s La French Tech Next 120 (FT120), an elite group of startups and scale-ups on track to becoming the next world-class technology leaders.&nbsp; La French Tech is an initiative by the French government to celebrate and support its most promising technology companies in&hellip; </p>
<p><a class=\"moretag\" href=\"https://www.botify.com/blog/botify-named-one-of-the-french-tech-next-120-for-the-second-time\">Read the full article</a></p>"
slug: botify-named-one-of-the-french-tech-next-120-for-the-second-time
---


<p>We are honored and humbled to announce that we’ve been named in 2022’s <a href="https://lafrenchtech.com/fr/la-france-aide-les-startups/french-tech-120-2/">La French Tech Next 120</a> (FT120), an elite group of startups and scale-ups on track to becoming the next world-class technology leaders.&nbsp;</p>



<p>La French Tech is an initiative by the French government to celebrate and support its most promising technology companies in flourishing and competing in international markets. To qualify, companies must be in a state of hypergrowth and meet a set of financial criteria.&nbsp;</p>



<p>Those nominated to the FT120 enjoy a full year of support from the French government, which includes: enhanced visibility at home and abroad; assistance in financing, international development, recruitment, and more from partner administrations and public services; regulatory aid; and access to the French Tech 120 community itself.</p>



<figure class="wp-block-pullquote"><blockquote><p style="font-size:20px">We are very proud to see Botify selected by the La French Tech program as one of the fastest-emerging leaders in France.</p><cite><div style="font-size:14px">Adrien Menard, Botify Co-Founder and CEO</div></cite></blockquote></figure>



<p>&#8220;We are very proud to see Botify selected by the La French Tech program as one of the fastest-emerging leaders in France,&#8221; says Botify Co-founder and CEO Adrien Menard. &#8220;This is a great recognition of our commitment to innovation and rewards the amazing work accomplished by our teams globally.&#8221;</p>



<p>This nomination comes on the heels of <a href="https://www.botify.com/blog/year-in-review-2021-at-botify" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">a landmark year</a> for Botify. After securing a $55 million Series C, we incorporated offices in Sydney, Singapore, and Tokyo to better serve the Asia-Pacific region. This year, with new office spaces in both Paris and New York, we’ll be doubling the size of both of those teams.</p>



<p>Botify SVP of People and Culture Kristin Langdon says, &#8220;It brings so much joy and pride to see Botify selected for the FT120. Every Botifyer around the globe has embodied our core value of going the extra mile, and that has created a culture of growth and success that has helped us to achieve this incredible honor.&#8221;</p>



<p>Botify has already begun to realize La French Tech’s vision of becoming a world technology leader. With customers like Expedia, L’Oréal, Farfetch, and the New York Times, Botify’s reach is becoming increasingly global. We sourced 60% of our revenue from United States companies in 2021 and are the <a href="https://www.botify.com/blog/year-in-review-2021-at-botify" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">enterprise SEO of choice</a> for the majority of its top 10 e-commerce brands.</p>



<p>This growth is a testament not just to our team and customers, but also to our wonderful and growing network of partners. Botify customers Vestaire Collective, Doctolib, Deezer, and Agriconomie also made the FT120; along with our technology partners AB Tasty, Contentsquare, and Mirakl.</p>



<p>This is the second time Botify was nominated to the FT120. The first time was in 2020, after securing our $20 million Series B.&nbsp;</p>



<p>“The La French Tech program has played a significant role in safeguarding Botify’s long-term international success,” says Menard. “We look forward to this year’s collaboration and the years of innovation to come.”</p>
