---
title: "Botify Triples New York Office Footprint to Accommodate Growing Hybrid Workforce"
date: 2022-09-15T13:21:50
excerpt: "<p>NEW YORK, NY &#8211; On August 22, Botify moved out of its 8,000-square-foot suite at 101 Greenwich Street and into a space just under 25,000 square feet at 3 World Trade Center. Not only did the move accommodate the company’s growing New York team, slated to double in 2022, but it also fostered closer collaboration&hellip; </p>
<p><a class=\"moretag\" href=\"https://www.botify.com/blog/botify-triples-new-york-office-footprint-to-accommodate-growing-hybrid-workforce\">Read the full article</a></p>"
slug: botify-triples-new-york-office-footprint-to-accommodate-growing-hybrid-workforce
---


<p><strong>NEW YORK, NY </strong>&#8211; On August 22, Botify moved out of its 8,000-square-foot suite at 101 Greenwich Street and into a space just under 25,000 square feet at 3 World Trade Center. Not only did the move accommodate the company’s growing New York team, slated to double in 2022, but it also fostered closer collaboration and a sense of community for the company’s rapidly expanding remote workforce.&nbsp;</p>



<p>“We’re trying to create the office of the future,” says Kristin Langdon, Botify’s SVP of People and Culture. “As such, the new workspace will focus as much as possible on facilitating communication between team members, whether they’re in the same room or remoting in from the other side of the world.”&nbsp;</p>



<p>The new location features an open floor plan with state-of-the-art audiovisual equipment; 360-degree views of New York City, Brooklyn, and New Jersey; and a 5,000-square-foot outdoor space equipped with wifi and meeting areas.&nbsp;</p>



<p>“We wanted a space where we could safely host employee and client events that showed off the beauty of NYC,” explains Langdon, alluding to the event-planning challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. “This location will give us some much-needed flexibility.”&nbsp;</p>



<p>A successful $55 million Series C in Q3 of 2021 helped pave the way for this year’s rapid expansion. Its Paris team, also slated to double in size by December, just established a new headquarters at 8-12 rue d’Amsterdam. And, earlier this month, Botify secured its second La French Tech Next 120 (FT120) nomination, a distinction that comes with a year’s worth of strategic support from the French state.&nbsp;</p>



<p>Langdon sees the move to 3 World Trade Center – and physical workspaces in general – as instrumental to Botify’s ongoing success.&nbsp;</p>



<p>“Our offices are functional spaces, yes, but they’re also an embodiment of our community. Every Botifyer feels a sense of ownership and pride in them, and that sense of belonging, I would argue, is more important than ever.”&nbsp;</p>



<p>About Botify&nbsp;</p>



<p>More than 500 brands in industries ranging from travel and e-commerce to publishers and agencies use Botify to turn organic search into an efficient, measurable, and sustainable channel for both traffic and revenue growth. Serving industry leaders like Expedia, Macy’s, L’Oréal, The New York Times, Groupon, and Marriott, Botify is VC-backed with $82M in funding and offices in New York, Seattle, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, and Japan.</p>
