---
title: "Botify and Semrush Partner to Provide Powerful Insights for Enterprise Brands"
date: 2022-10-13T06:00:00
excerpt: "<p>Amidst relentlessly changing consumer behavior, the ability to quickly evolve and stand out in a crowded landscape has never been more challenging—making it vital for digital marketers to leverage the breadth of data available to them. If brands want to succeed, they must not just acknowledge they have competitors but arm themselves with the right&hellip; </p>
<p><a class=\"moretag\" href=\"https://www.botify.com/blog/botify-and-semrush-partner-to-provide-powerful-insights-for-enterprise-brands\">Read the full article</a></p>"
slug: botify-and-semrush-partner-to-provide-powerful-insights-for-enterprise-brands
---


<p>Amidst relentlessly changing consumer behavior, the ability to quickly evolve and stand out in a crowded landscape has never been more challenging—making it vital for digital marketers to leverage the breadth of data available to them.</p>



<p>If brands want to succeed, they must not just acknowledge they have competitors but arm themselves with the right intel to distinguish themselves and engage with greater impact. When there’s clear insight into what competitors are doing, marketers are in a better position to enhance their decision-making.&nbsp;</p>



<p>Competitive data acts as a valuable source of information that can help build successful marketing strategies and specifically, improve organic search efforts. For example, when marketers can easily identify who&#8217;s winning organic traffic or what keywords are most in demand, then they are able to swiftly switch strategies, prioritize efforts for the biggest return, and outpace the competition.</p>



<p><strong>Botify and Semrush’s solution</strong></p>



<p>To help facilitate this, Botify is excited to announce its partnership with Semrush to provide customers with streamlined access to competitive insights.</p>



<p>Semrush is a leading online visibility management SaaS platform that enables businesses globally to run search engine optimization, pay-per-click, content, social media, and competitive research campaigns, and get measurable results from online marketing. It offers insights and solutions for companies to build, manage, and measure campaigns across various marketing channels.</p>



<p>This new integration, which brings complementary search data from Semrush into Botify’s platform, adds a layer of competitive analysis to the wealth of insight already gleaned through Botify. Now, customers can analyze first- and third-party data from a central platform to bridge the gap between competitor data, a site’s true ranking, and a company’s crawl data, to optimize their organic search performance.&nbsp;</p>



<p><em>“As search spend continues to increase, this integration allows digital marketers to stop losing precious time switching between several apps and utilize one unified platform, to gain real-time visibility into their competitors’ organic search performance and create an even more powerful data-driven SEO strategy,” said </em>Christophe Frenet, Chief Product Officer at Botify.</p>



<p>Botify users can get the most out of their competitive data from Semrush by leveraging the platform integration to:</p>



<ul><li>Discover share of voice per keyword to differentiate against competitors</li><li>Identify new keywords to rank for and prioritize them by traffic potential, offering the ability to share new opportunities with content teams</li><li>Get smarter about the allocation of paid media spend or budget using SEO insights</li><li>Save time by analyzing competitors’ performance alongside your own without leaving the Botify platform</li></ul>



<p><em>“We used to rely on regular data exports from Semrush in order to cross-reference it with our data from Botify. Now, with the competitive data we utilize from Semrush available directly in the Botify platform, we can do our analyses more easily, within the platform, making our work more efficient,” said Sabrina Berge, Head of SEO, <a href="https://www.effy.fr">Effy</a>.</em></p>



<p><strong>Ready to optimize?</strong></p>



<p>The Semrush integration is now available for all Botify customers.<strong> </strong>If you’re interested in learning more about how Botify can help increase traffic, drive revenue, and generate a better ROI, <a href="https://lp.botify.com/demo-semrush">click here</a> to schedule a customized demo.&nbsp;</p>
